README.md, before:

# Validator

A package for validation of misc values.  
  
Observe that this is a pre-release, changes could be made to the base API before the first real release that breaks
any implementation done.  
If using the validation package before version 1.0.0, be sure to se the constraints on minor version, for example:  
  
`"jitesoft/validator": "0.3.*"`

## Usage
  
Install package:
```text
$> composer require jitesoft/validator
```

When a validator is needed, create it with a set of rules in the constructor and then call it with the given value/rule
map that you wish to validate:

```php
$validator = new Validator(
  Email::class,
  Text::class
);

$result = $validator->validate([
  'abc@test' => 'email',
  'hiThere!' => [
    'text'
   ],
   'oh!' => [
     'text' => [
       'min' => 4
     ]
   ]
]);
```

The returned value is a boolean which is true if the data is valid or false if it is not.  
If false, the `$validator->getErrors()` method will return a list of errors.

By default, the validator will not throw any exceptions. But if this is wanted, set the `$throw` argument (second) of the
validator constructor to true, and it will throw `ValidationException` instead of returning false.

## The idea

The idea of the validation structure is that each validation rule can have a set of sub-rules.
The sub-rule in turn can have other sub-rule.  
When implementing rules it's important to make sure that the validators don't create a never ending loop of self 
references.  

```mermaid
graph TD;

TextRule-- optional -->LengthRule
LengthRule-- optional -->MoreThanRule;
LengthRule-- optional -->LessThanRule;
TextRule-- optional -->PatternRule;
```

In the above example structure, the `TextRule` have two sub rules, the `LengthRule` and the `PatternRule`.  
Both are optional and the `LengthRule` have optional `MoreThan` and `LessThan` rules.  
When running the validation, the call could be made with either just a check that the value is a text:

```php
$validator->validate(['abc123' => 'text' ]);
```

Or with the use of the sub-rules.

```php
$validator->validate([
  'abc123' => [
    'text' => [
      'length' => [
        'lessthan' => 5,
        'morethan' => 2
      ],
      'pattern' => '/abc(\d{3})/s'
    ]
]);
```

When a validator errors out, it should fetch the error from the given rules and depending on the `throw` param either
just store it in a error or throw a validation exception.

## License

MIT.

Commit message:

Changed name and description to class constants.

README.md, after:

# Validator

A package for validation of misc values.  
  
Observe that this is a pre-release, changes could be made to the base API before the first real release that breaks
any implementation done.  
If using the validation package before version 1.0.0, be sure to se the constraints on minor version, for example:  
  
`"jitesoft/validator": "0.3.*"`

## Usage
  
Install package:
```text
$> composer require jitesoft/validator
```

When a validator is needed, create it with a set of rules in the constructor and then call it with the given value/rule
map that you wish to validate:

```php
$validator = new Validator(
  Email::class,
  Text::class
);

$result = $validator->validate([
  'abc@test' => 'email',
  'hiThere!' => [
    'text'
   ],
   'oh!' => [
     'text' => [
       'min' => 4
     ]
   ]
]);
```

The returned value is a boolean which is true if the data is valid or false if it is not.  
If false, the `$validator->getErrors()` method will return a list of errors.

By default, the validator will not throw any exceptions. But if this is wanted, set the `$throw` argument (second) of the
validator constructor to true, and it will throw `ValidationException` instead of returning false.

## The idea

The idea of the validation structure is that each validation rule can have a set of sub-rules.
The sub-rule in turn can have other sub-rule.  
When implementing rules it's important to make sure that the validators don't create a never ending loop of self 
references.  

```mermaid
graph TD;

TextRule-- optional -->LengthRule
LengthRule-- optional -->MoreThanRule;
LengthRule-- optional -->LessThanRule;
TextRule-- optional -->PatternRule;
```

In the above example structure, the `TextRule` have two sub rules, the `LengthRule` and the `PatternRule`.  
Both are optional and the `LengthRule` have optional `MoreThan` and `LessThan` rules.  
When running the validation, the call could be made with either just a check that the value is a text:

```php
$validator->validate(['abc123' => 'text' ]);
```

Or with the use of the sub-rules.

```php
$validator->validate([
  'abc123' => [
    'text' => [
      'length' => [
        'lessthan' => 5,
        'morethan' => 2
      ],
      'pattern' => '/abc(\d{3})/s'
    ]
]);
```

When a validator errors out, it should fetch the error from the given rules and depending on the `throw` param either
just store it in a error or throw a validation exception.

## Currently implemented rules

Following is a graph of implemented rules and their sub-rule relations.
Rule names are the actual names, not class names. Check the `src/Rules` directory for class names.

```mermaid
graph TD;

text-->email
text-->length
text-->pattern
email-->length
length-->max
length-->min
email-->pattern
```

## License

MIT.
